New Ably Pub/Sub JavaScript SDK README .md (#2)
franrob-projects/ably-js: README.md

**TypeScript:** see [below](#typescript)

**WebWorkers:** The browser bundle supports running in a [Web Worker](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API) context. You can also use the [modular variant](#modular-tree-shakable-variant) of the library in Web Workers.

We test the library against a selection of browsers using their latest versions. Please refer to [the test-browser GitHub workflow](./.github/workflows/test-browser.yml) for the set of browsers that currently undergo CI testing.

We regression-test the library against a selection of Node.js versions, which will change over time. We will always support and test against current LTS Node.js versions, and optionally some older versions that are still supported by upstream dependencies. We reserve the right to drop support for non-LTS versions in a non-major release. We will update the `engines` field in [package.json](./package.json) whenever we change the Node.js versions supported by the project. Please refer to [the test-node GitHub workflow](./.github/workflows/test-node.yml) for the set of versions that currently undergo CI testing.

> However, we aim to be compatible with a much wider set of platforms and browsers than we can possibly test on. That means we'll happily support (and investigate reported problems with) any reasonably-widely-used browser. So if you find any compatibility issues, please do [raise an issue](https://github.com/ably/ably-js/issues) in this repository or [contact Ably customer support](https://support.ably.com) for advice.

Reviewer: I think we should a cut-down version of this after the browser table.

> If you require support for older browsers and Node.js, you can use the security-maintained version 1 of the library. Install version 1 via [CDN link](https://cdn.ably.com/lib/ably.min-1.js), or from npm with `npm install ably@1 --save`. It supports IE versions 9 or newer, older versions of major browsers, and Node.js 8.17 or newer. Note that version 1 will only receive security updates and critical bug fixes, and won't include any new features.

Reviewer: We should consider this against the deprecation notice of protocol v1.

> Ably Pub/Sub JavaScript SDK is the official SDK for interacting with the [Ably realtime platform](https://ably.com/docs/platform#platform). Ably Pub/Sub JavaScript SDK supports building realtime applications with features like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the JavaScript SDK for Ably's core [Pub/Sub](https://ably.com/docs/basics) product. 

You can use the Ably Pub/Sub JavaScript SDK to build any realtime experience you can think of. It runs on Ably's reliable and scalable [platform](https://ably.com/docs/platform) to provide performant and globally consistent service to end-users.
```

Something along these lines? I'm not sold on what I've written but I think we need to set the scene somewhat with these intro lines.

Reviewer: In hindsight, I think we also need to touch upon the REST and realtime interfaces here/somewhere.

> - [Connection recovery](https://ably.com/docs/realtime/usage#connection-state-recovery)

Reviewer: I'm still not fully sold on including these, but if we do I think we should curate them properly (these are a little random) and perhaps use a table or provide some base-level description here.

Reviewer: We need to consider LiveObjects and whether we cover it. It's a separate product but it is just a plugin to JS so won't have it's own README.

> | Environment      | Minimum Supported Version / Notes                                                                   |

Reviewer: I think we should split this out. 

A table for supported platforms and then one for browsers afterwards that keeps the line about 'all major desktop and mobile browsers' from the original.

> | **Modular Build**| Supported via a tree-shakable variant of the library.                                               |

Reviewer: I think this shouldn't be in the supported list here as it isn't a platform. We need a separate section for that within the README

> | **React Hooks**  | Provides access to Ably realtime functionality.                                                     |

Reviewer: This should just be React. Also watch your consistency in the descriptions - some are describing what it is, and others are stating the supportability.

> | **NativeScript** | Supported via community-maintained wrapper.                                                         |

Reviewer: This should link to the repo at the least. I'm also not sure it's community-maintained? Where did you see that.

| **Webpack**      | Supported for both browser and server-side bundling.                                                |
| **Modular Build**| Supported via a tree-shakable variant of the library.                                               |
| **TypeScript**   | Typings included in the package.                                                                    |
| **React Hooks**  | Provides access to Ably realtime functionality.                                                     |
| **React Native** | All React Native platforms supported.                                                               |
| **NativeScript** | Supported via community-maintained wrapper.                                                         |
| **Web Workers**  | Supported in browser bundles and modular variant.                                                   |

---

## Installation

### Node.js

    npm install ably --save

and require as:

```javascript
var Ably = require('ably');
```

For usage, jump to [Using the Realtime API](#using-the-realtime-api) or [Using the REST API](#using-the-rest-api).

#### Serverside usage with Webpack

> If you are using a version older than 1.2.5 you will need to add 'ably' to `externals` in your Webpack config to exclude it from Webpack processing, and require and use it in as a external module using require('ably') as above.

Reviewer: Might need to keep this as a note in the installation section for now.

### For browsers

Include the Ably library in your HTML:

```html
<script src="https://cdn.ably.com/lib/ably.min-2.js"></script>
```

The Ably client library follows [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/). To lock into a major or minor version of the client library, you can specify a specific version number such as https://cdn.ably.com/lib/ably.min-2.js for all v2._ versions, or https://cdn.ably.com/lib/ably.min-2.6.js for all v2.6._ versions, or you can lock into a single release with https://cdn.ably.com/lib/ably.min-2.6.3.js. Note you can load the non-minified version by omitting `.min` from the URL such as https://cdn.ably.com/lib/ably-2.js. See https://github.com/ably/ably-js/tags for a list of tagged releases.

For usage, jump to [Using the Realtime API](#using-the-realtime-api) or [Using the REST API](#using-the-rest-api).

> #### Using Webpack

Reviewer: As above, we don't need all this info but I think a consolidated 'Webpack' section in the installation.

Webpack will search your `node_modules` folder by default, so if you include `ably` in your `package.json` file, when running Webpack the following will allow you to `require('ably')` (or if using typescript or ES6 modules, `import * as Ably from 'ably';`). If your Webpack target is set to 'browser', this will automatically use the browser commonjs distribution.

If that doesn't work for some reason (e.g. you are using a custom Webpack target), you can use one of the solutions below depending on your Webpack version:

- for Webpack 5: you can use alias setting in the Webpack config like this:

  ```javascript
  // webpack.config.js
  const path = require('path');

  module.exports = {
    module: {
      rules: [
        {
          resolve: {
            alias: {
              ably: path.resolve(__dirname, 'node_modules/ably/build/ably.js'),
            },
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  };
  ```

- for Webpack before 5: you can reference the `ably.js` static file directly: `require('ably/build/ably.js');` (or `import * as Ably from 'ably/build/ably.js'` for typescript / ES6 modules).

> #### Modular (tree-shakable) variant

Reviewer: We'll need to keep this as well, as we don't really cover this information elsewhere.

```javascript
import * as Ably from 'ably';
import Push from 'ably/push';

const client = new Ably.Rest({
  ...options,
  pushServiceWorkerUrl: '/my_service_worker.js',
  plugins: { Push },
});
```

Example service worker:

```javascript
// my_service_worker.js
self.addEventListener('push', async (event) => {
  const { notification } = event.data.json();
  self.registration.showNotification(notification.title, notification);
});
```

To register the device to receive push notifications, you must call the `activate` method:

```javascript
await client.push.activate();
```

Once the client is activated, you can subscribe to receive push notifcations on a channel:

```javascript
const channel = client.channels.get('my_push_channel');

// Subscribe the device to receive push notifcations for a channel...
await channel.push.subscribeDevice();

// ...or subscribe all devices associated with the client's cliendId to receive notifcations from the channel
await channel.push.subscribeClient();

// When you no longer need to be subscribed to push notifcations, you can remove the subscription:
await channel.push.unsubscribeDevice();
// Or:
await channel.push.unsubscribeClient();
```

> Push activation works with the [Modular variant](#modular-tree-shakable-variant) of the library, but requires you to be using the Rest plugin.

Reviewer: This might need to be included in the modular variant section if it isn't already covered.

```

When loaded this way, the Push plugin will be available on the global object via the `AblyPushPlugin` property, so you will need to pass it to the Ably instance as follows:
Then require it in your code:

```javascript
const client = new Ably.Rest({
  ...options,
  plugins: { Push: AblyPushPlugin },
});
```

The Push plugin is developed as part of the Ably client library, so it is available for the same versions as the Ably client library itself. It also means that it follows the same semantic versioning rules as they were defined for [the Ably client library](#for-browsers). For example, to lock into a major or minor version of the Push plugin, you can specify a specific version number such as https://cdn.ably.com/lib/push.umd.min-2.js for all v2._ versions, or https://cdn.ably.com/lib/push.umd.min-2.4.js for all v2.4._ versions, or you can lock into a single release with https://cdn.ably.com/lib/push.umd.min-2.4.0.js. Note you can load the non-minified version by omitting `.min` from the URL such as https://cdn.ably.com/lib/push.umd-2.js.

For more information on publishing push notifications over Ably, see the [Ably push documentation](https://ably.com/docs/push).

> ### LiveObjects

Reviewer: As discussed. I don't think we need all this info explaining how LiveObjects works, but we need to cover it somewhere. Either in features or the intro maybe?

> var Ably = require('ably');

Reviewer: `const`

Reviewer: I also think we should include an `import` example.

> ## Quick Start

Reviewer: Can we move to 'getting started' terminology and link to the getting started guides instead of the quickstart please?

> ## Support, Troubleshooting, and Environment-Specific Issues

Reviewer: Maybe this is support and known issues?

> Ably Pub/Sub JavaScript SDK works out-of-the-box in background scripts for Chrome extensions using manifest v2. However, since manifest v3 background pages are no longer supported, you will need to run Ably Pub/Sub JavaScript SDK inside a service worker.

Reviewer: The Ably Pub/Sub...[]

> If you are using this SDK in a service worker, note:

Reviewer: Be careful of losing the realtime aspect here.

}
```

#### Next.js with App Router and Turbopack

> If you are using ably-js in your Next.js project with App Router and Turbopack enabled (via running `next dev --turbo`), you may encounter `Failed to compile Module not found` compilation error referencing `./node_modules/keyv/src/index.js` file or see `Critical dependency: the request of a dependency is an expression` warnings for the same `keyv` module.

Reviewer: We've lost some of the error messages here and I think we should keep these.

`keyv` ends up being one of `ably-js`'s upstream dependencies for node.js bundle, which causes the errors above when using it with Next.js App Router.
### Errors during development

Using `serverComponentsExternalPackages` opt-outs from using Next.js bundling for specific packages and uses native Node.js `require` instead.
This is a common problem in App Router for a number of packages (for example, see next.js issue [vercel/next.js#52876](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/52876)), and using `serverComponentsExternalPackages` is the recommended approach here.
If you encounter an error such as `connection limit exceeded` during development, it may be caused by one of the following issues:

> #### "Connection limit exceeded" error during development

Reviewer: I think we need to be careful about what we cut from here.

```

#### Component re-renders

Avoid creating the client inside React components. Instead, move the client instantiation outside of the component to prevent it from being recreated on every render.

#### Hot module replacement (HMR)

To avoid duplicate client instances caused by hot reloads, move the new `Ably.Realtime()` call into a separate file, for example, ably.js and export the client from there. This ensures a single shared instance is reused during development.

> ## Contribute

Reviewer: I can see why you've made it active voice, but I think this should probably stay as 'contributing' since it's the file name and well known.

For contribution guidelines, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Changelog

> See the [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md) for details on updates and changes.

Reviewer: Open question: should this link to the company-wide changelog?
